Fixed #34574 -- Noted unexpected outcomes in autoescape/escape docs. (#16871)
django/django: docs/ref/templates/builtins.txt

``off`` as an argument and that determines whether auto-escaping is in effect
inside the block. The block is closed with an ``endautoescape`` ending tag.

When auto-escaping is in effect, all variable content has HTML escaping applied
to it before placing the result into the output (but after any filters have
been applied). This is equivalent to manually applying the :tfilter:`escape`
filter to each variable.

The only exceptions are variables that are already marked as "safe" from
escaping, either by the code that populated the variable, or because it has had
the :tfilter:`safe` or :tfilter:`escape` filters applied.

> 

Author: I moved this paragraph to after the example because I think the reader may understand that there is a connection between these notes and the code that follows, but in reality the example is the simplest usage possible and (I think) it dilutes the seriousness of the two paragraphs.

Reviewer: comment

Reviewer 2: @nanis94 Please stop, or I will block your account. You're spamming folks who watch this repository.

The only exceptions are variables that are already marked as "safe" from
escaping: either by the code that populated the variable, or because it has had
the :tfilter:`safe` or :tfilter:`escape` filters applied, or because it's the
result of a previous filter that marked the string as "safe".

It's important to note that within the scope of disabled auto-escaping,
chaining filters including :tfilter:`escape` could lead to unexpected (but
documented) results such as the following:

.. code-block:: html+django

    {% autoescape off %}
        {{ my_list|join:", "|escape }}
    {% endautoescape %}

The above code will output the joined elements of ``my_list`` unescaped. This
is because the filter chaining sequence executes first :tfilter:`join` on
``my_list`` (without applying escaping to each item since ``autoescape`` is
``off``), marking the result as safe. Subsequently, this safe result will be
fed to :tfilter:`escape` filter, which, as documented, does not apply a second
round of escaping.

..
    Once https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/34577 gets released, we should
    add a sentence explaining how using :tfilter:`escapeseq` could be used to

>     properly implement the example above"

Author: This is a comment to remember to extend this section.

Reviewer 2: Can we add `escapeseq` first? :thinking:

Author: Sure, updating now that the filter was added.

        {{ body }}
    {% endautoescape %}

> When auto-escaping is in effect, all content derived from variables have HTML
> escaping applied to it before placing the result into the output (but after any
> filters have been applied). This is equivalent to manually applying the
> :tfilter:`escape` filter to each variable.

Reviewer 3: Maybe:

```suggestion
When auto-escaping is in effect, all content derived from variables has HTML
escaping applied before placing the result into the output (but after any
filters are applied). This is equivalent to manually applying the
:tfilter:`escape` filter to each variable.
```

Author: Thanks! Applied (originally I did not touch this paragraph since I just moved it to after the example).

> The only exceptions are variables that are already marked as "safe" from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The only exceptions are variables already marked as "safe" from
```

> escaping: either by the code that populated the variable, or because it has had
> the :tfilter:`safe` or :tfilter:`escape` filters applied, or because it's the
> result of a previous filter that marked the string as "safe".

Reviewer 3: Either should be a choice from two options. There's three here. Maybe:

```suggestion
escaping. Variables could be marked as "safe" by the code which populated the variable, the use of :tfilter:`safe` or :tfilter:`escape` filters, or because it's the result of a previous filter that marked the string as "safe".
```

> result of a previous filter that marked the string as "safe".

Author: I used David's suggestion with a minor tweak.

> It's important to note that within the scope of disabled auto-escaping,

Author: Applied.

> chaining filters including :tfilter:`escape` could lead to unexpected (but

Author: Changed.

documented) results such as the following:

.. code-block:: html+django

    {% autoescape off %}
        {{ my_list|join:", "|escape }}
    {% endautoescape %}

The above code will output the joined elements of ``my_list`` unescaped. This
is because the filter chaining sequence executes first :tfilter:`join` on
``my_list`` (without applying escaping to each item since ``autoescape`` is
``off``), marking the result as safe. Subsequently, this safe result will be

> fed to :tfilter:`escape` filter, which, as documented, does not apply a second

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure about all these commas. Do we need the "as documented" part?

Author: Removed "as documented" and two commas.

        {{ title|escape }}
    {% endautoescape %}

.. note::

    As mentioned in the :ttag:`autoescape` section, when filters including
    ``escape`` are chained together, it can result in unexpected outcomes if
    preceding filters mark a potentially unsafe string as safe due to the lack
    of escaping caused by :ttag:`autoescape` being ``off``.

    In such cases, chaining ``escape`` would not reescape strings that have
    already been marked as safe.

>     This is specially important when using filters that operate on sequences,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This is especially important when using filters that operate on sequences,
```

        {{ title|escape }}
    {% endautoescape %}

.. note::

>     As mentioned in the :ttag:`autoescape` section, when filters including
>     ``escape`` are chained together, it can result in unexpected
>     outcomes if preceding filters mark a potentially unsafe string as safe due
>     to the lack of escaping caused by :ttag:`autoescape` being ``off``.

Reviewer 2: Wrap at 79 chars:
```suggestion
    As mentioned in the :ttag:`autoescape` section, when filters including
    ``escape`` are chained together, it can result in unexpected outcomes if
    preceding filters mark a potentially unsafe string as safe due to the lack
    of escaping caused by :ttag:`autoescape` being ``off``.
```

>     In such cases, similar to the note in the :tfilter:`safe` filter, chaining

Reviewer 2: The reference to `safe` sounds unnecessary to me, I'd chop it
```suggestion
    In such cases, chaining ...
```

>     ``escape`` would not re-escape strings that have already been marked as

Reviewer 2: Do we need a hyphen? (see ce586ed6931092d3a5f06df9031cdeb891793ddb) \cc @smithdc1
```suggestion
    ``escape`` would not reescape strings that have already been marked as
```

Reviewer 3: For `en-us` no hypen is required.

The AP Stylebook (a change in 2019) says to not to hypenate double "e" for "re-" and "pre-" combinations. Only exception would be if the sense was changed. e.g. resign (to quit) or re-sign (to sign again).

Author: Note that this change results in a spell check error:

```
WARNING: ref/templates/builtins.txt:1868: : Spell check: reescape:  would not reescape strings that have.
```

    safe.

>     This is specially important when using filters that would operate on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This is specially important when using filters that operates on
```
